# Day 20: Race Condition

I will admit that I suffered from reading too fast on this challenge. The first part was pretty standard, considering that the map was just a race, no having to check directions or anything like that. Just make it to the end. But the twist came from finding the possible ways to cheat the map. The first part was pretty straightforward, just find the amount of ways to "cheat" by phasing through a wall where you're able to do so for two picoseconds. This wasn't too bad, I just scored every single point on the map and then compared the score for ways to see how much I can cheat, showing the difference between scores (of course, subtracting 2 for each time I had to walk through a wall), and then recording it.

Part two was a bit more involved. And because I didn't read it properly, I thought it meant that I was only allowed to phase through ONE wall. As in, if I phase through a wall and wind up in another path, that was the end of my phasing. So my attempt at first was to perform a flood-fill algorithm of the walls itself, looking for a way to exit the wall and compare scores of each possible exit. This was not the challenge! Apparently I can phase through as many walls as I want, regardless of anything, as long as it was within `20` picoseconds. That made things quite a bit easier to conceptualize. Now I'm working with [Taxicab Geometry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taxicab_geometry), or otherwise known as the "Manhattan Distance." I created a function I called the "Manhattan Radius," which obtained every single point of the map within a radius of X that was within the manhattan distance. From there, I compared each score of that point with the point I reached it from PLUS the manhattan distance of the point, and came up with a proper scoring.

At that point, once I got the algorithm down and tuned for it, I was able to complete the challenge. Took me the better part of a day to handle, but OH MAN did I jump out of my chair when I solved it.

Advent of Code is like crack at this point. What a freakin' rush.